---
title: "Codebook"
---

# Codebook

## Data Source
The data used is collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. 

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

## Transformations

* Inertial Signals were ignored
* subject_test.txt X_test.txt and y_test.txt were merged into one data frame for each Training and Test datasets
* The Trainng and Test data tables were merged, and melted
* Data labels were matched to the original numeric id reference numbers

## Variables
Details generated by dataMaid
* codebook_filtered_data.Rmd
* codebook_avg_data.Rmd